This documents the life cycle of message as it arrives and is handled by
a basic async, packetized NAL.  There are four types of messages that have
slightly different life cycles, so they are addressed independently.


Put request
-----------

1.  NAL notices that there is an incoming message header on the network
and reads an ptl_hdr_t in from the wire.

2.  It may store additional NAL specific data that provides context
for this event in a void* that it will interpret in some fashion
later.

3.  The NAL calls lib_parse() with a pointer to the header and its
private data structure.

4.  The library decodes the header and may build a message state
object that describes the event to be written and the ACK to be
sent, if any.  It then calls nal->recv() with the private data
that the NAL passed in, a pointer to the message state object
and a translated user address.

	The NAL will have been given a chance to pretranslate
	all user addresses when the buffers are created.  This
	process is described in the NAL-HOWTO.

5.  The NAL should restore what ever context it required from the
private data pointer, begin receiving the bytes and possibly store
some extra state of its own.  It should return at this point.



Get request
-----------

1.  As with a Put, the NAL notices the incoming message header and
passes it to lib_parse().

2.  The library decodes the header and calls nal->recv() with a
zero byte length, offset and destination to instruct it to clean
up the wire after reading the header.  The private data will
be passed in as well, allowing the NAL to retrieve any state
or context that it requires.

3.  The library may build a message state object to possibly
write an event log or invalidate a memory region.

4.  The library will build a ptl_msg_t header that specifies the
Portals protocol information for delivery at the remote end.

5.  The library calls nal->send() with the pre-built header,
the optional message state object, the four part address
component, a translated user pointer + offset, and some
other things.

6.  The NAL is to put the header on the wire or copy it at
this point (since it off the stack).  It should store some
amount of state about its current position in the message and
the destination address.

7.  And then return to the library.


Reply request
-------------

1.  Starting at "The library decodes the header..."

2.  The library decodes the header and calls nal->recv()
to bring in the rest of the message.  Flow continues in
exactly the same fashion as with all other receives.


Ack request
-----------

1.  The library decodes the header, builds the appropriate data
structures for the event in a message state object and calls nal->recv()
with a zero byte length, etc.


Packet arrival
--------------

1.  The NAL should notice the arrival of a packet, retrieve whatever
state it needs from the message ID or other NAL specific header data
and place the data bytes directly into the user address that were
given to nal->recv().

	How this happens is outside the scope of the Portals library
	and soley determined by the NAL...

2.  If this is the last packet in a message, the NAL should retrieve
the lib_msg_t *cookie that it was given in the call to nal->recv()
and pass it to lib_finalize().  lib_finalize() may call nal->send()
to send an ACK, nal->write() to record an entry in the event log,
nal->invalidate() to unregister a region of memory or do nothing at all.

3.  It should then clean up any remaining NAL specific state about
the message and go back into the main loop.


Outgoing packets
----------------

1.  When the NAL has pending output, it should put the packets on
the wire wrapped with whatever implementation specified wrappers.

2.  Once it has output all the packets of a message it should
call lib_finalize() with the message state object that was
handed to nal->send().  This will allows the library to clean
up its state regarding the message and write any pending event
entries.



